# RDR Changelog

## v2023_1
The RDR 2023.1 public release includes updates related to transit modeling, incorporation of multiple trip tables, equity analysis, metamodel enhancements, expanded ROI analysis and reporting capabilities, and other minor bug fixes. The following changes have been made:
- Implements a transit network specification to allow for RDR scenarios to include transit trips in the analysis. The new specification aligns with the General Modeling Network Specification (GMNS) and can be constructed from the General Transit Feed Specification (GTFS) through a series of helper tools. The new specification is accompanied by user guidance, a new quick start example, and helper tools for construction and verification of the required RDR input files; see documentation for technical details.
- Adds the ability to run RDR scenarios with two separate trip tables--one for households owning vehicles and one for households without vehicles. The 'matrix' and 'nocar' trip tables should be contained in the same OMX file for input to the RDR Tool Suite. Separate trip tables allows for more nuanced modeling of network routing (e.g., interaction with transit, TNCs) and will be incorporated into the equity analysis in a future release.
- Includes a beta version of the RDR Equity Analysis Tool. The standalone suite of equity analysis tools includes an ArcGIS-based equity overlay tool for intersecting TAZs with categorical overlays (e.g., Justice40 Transportation Disadvantaged Census Tracts) and a TAZ metrics tool for disaggregating resilience project benefits across categories of TAZs.
- Updates the RDR Metamodel to use the multitarget regression model as the default. Validation testing across several sample sizes and scenario space structures has shown the 'multitarget' approach to perform best out of all available RDR Metamodel approaches.
- Expands the RDR ROI Analysis Module to include tracking of safety (e.g., crash rates per vehicle-miles traveled) and emissions (e.g., CO2, NOx, SO2, PM2.5) benefits associated with the change in VMT from the resilience project investment. The ROI Analysis Module also requires users to specify the type of ROI analysis they wish to run (BCA, Regret, Breakeven) and allows for specification of project lifespans and calculates project residual cost as a benefit.

See documentation files for additional details.
